Hello and welcome to our campaign creation
assignment.
Before we get started, one note:
This feed is just an example how a feed for
a campaign like this could look like.
If you’re going to build your own at some
point in the future, it might have additional
columns or might be missing some; the columns
might be named differently, and so on.
The basic concepts, however, should apply
to any similar location-based campaign.
With that being said, you can download the
feed file for this assignment and then open
it in an app of your choice, for example,
in Numbers or Excel.
I have it here in Google Spreadsheets, but
with additional formatting for clarity.
Let’s take a look around.
In column A we have our ID field.
That’s needed for both Automated and Dynamic
Ads and has to be unique.
If we scroll down, we can see that we have
50 cities or “products”.
In column B, we have our city names, and column
C includes local names that might differ from
the English names.
Then we have a region for the cities, e.g.,
England or California.
In column E, we have the country, ten countries
in total.
In column F, we have all this location information
merged into one column that can be used for
Facebook’s targeting, such as “New York,
New York, United States” or “London, England,
United Kingdom”.
The next column includes our audience size,
which calculates our daily budget relative
to the audience size.
That daily budget is, of course, in column
H, daily_budget.
This OW_ID in column I is not relevant for
you.
It’s used to match each city to the OpenWeatherMap
API to get the correct weather for each city.
Column J defines the language of the ad copy
used for each city.
Then we have the main weather condition, which
is used to determine if it’s raining in
a city or not.
Right now, we can see that at the time of
this recording, it’s raining in Houston,
Texas, and a few other cities like Montreal.
This column L tells us straightforwardly whether
it’s raining in a city, TRUE or FALSE.
Columns M and N contain the temperature in
Celsius and Fahrenheit, whichever you prefer.
And column O, cold, tells us if this temperature
is considered cold or not.
At the moment, Chicago is below 10°C or 50°F,
which we consider cold.
The same applies to a few cities in the UK
and Canada.
Moving on, we have both our sunrise and sunset
times.
Based on those the column R calculates if
it’s right now after sunset and before sunrise.
Los Angeles, for example, is still at night.
It’s also already night in Australia and
day in the UK.
Finally, we can see when the weather data
was last updated, which should be somewhat
current.
In the columns following T, we have our ad
texts.
This campaign uses texts in the local language
of each city, and all texts are included here.
They consist of the copies for the videos
and the ad texts themselves, like the message
or description.
You could also adjust URLs, Call-to-Actions,
and other elements.
And that concludes our rundown of the feed
file.
The next step will be to integrate this sheet
into Smartly.io, so let’s do that now.